{'code': 200, 'status': 20000, 'data': {'warning': 'Target URL returned error 404: Not Found', 'title': 'Rescaling-contraction with a lower cost technology when revenue declines', 'description': '', 'url': 'https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0377221719301857', 'content': "Introduction\n------------\n\nWe investigate the viability of implementing a rescale policy for mature oilfields (and similar problems) under declining periodic output volumes and volatile oil prices. This is formulated as a real option model, which provides the revenue threshold justifying switching from a conventional to a more appropriate technology and compares the economics of this policy with abandonment, initially in an analytical form.\n\nWhile a replacement constitutes a like-for-like exchange of a deteriorated productive asset for a brand-new version, a rescaling-contraction is defined here as a switch to a more appropriate technology used specifically in extracting a mature exhaustible resource. The erosion in the economic prospects for a conventional technology due to continuous deterioration in productivity and efficiency, usually associated with cumulative output, is often a prompt for appraising its qualities relative to an appropriate technology operating at a lower output but with a lower operating cost. Off-shore platforms (installations, rigs) are an interesting illustration. Typically, these large-scale extraction facilities, suitable for the largest discoveries, carry commensurately large capital and operating costs. The viability of large-scale installations becomes increasingly questionable during their end-of-life stage due to the reduction in the extraction rate and decline in the reserve volume, a business state that becomes increasingly acute as oil prices decline. The inevitable outcome is abandonment, unless a rescaling-contraction to a small-scale, appropriate technology with lower operating costs is economically justified.\n\nOur formulation is an abstracted illustration of the current state of many off-shore United Kingdom continental shelf (UKCS) oil facilities, representing a mature off-shore basin with some operating asset ages exceeding 30 years. From its peak in 1999, production has steadily declined until 2014 at an annual rate of about 7%.1 Wood (2014) focuses on maximizing economic recovery, as 70% of the UKCS decline is considered to be due to production inefficiencies, compounded by a lack of investment in new technology. This report recommends increased asset stewardship through technological advancements having the potential to increase efficiencies and enhance recovery rates and volumes, while maximizing the economic extension of the field life. Those fields most susceptible to abandonment are classified as marginal, characterized as having low remaining recoverable reserves, low production volume, and unfavourable economics.\n\nVarious authors focus on different critical factors in off-shore oil field abandonment decisions. Kemp (1992) considers the current operating and abandonment costs, the role of fiscal relief and security concerns, along with fluctuating oil prices, field interdependency and technological progress. A net present value analysis shows a greater incentive to postpone abandonment in the presence of a less steep production decline rate, higher abandonment costs and a higher discount rate. The externalities associated with decommissioning off-shore installations for all maritime users, including environmental groups and governments as well as the oil companies, are studied by Osmundsen and Tveterås (2003). Disposal costs can vary by field even for the same geographic region, while differences in disposal strategies can lead to varying reputational and cost consequences apportioned amongst the players. Parente, Ferreira, Moutinho dos Santos, and Luczynski (2006) consider the role of a periodic ex-ante tax deductibility of the decommissioning cost despite constituting an ex-post expense and the question of assigning decommissioning responsibility for an installation following a transfer of rights during the project life.\n\nOne of the earliest real option analysis of entry and exit thresholds in natural resources is Tourinho (1979), who advocates the inclusion of a holding cost to ensure exercise, see also Adkins and Paxson (2013). Paddock, Siegel, and Smith (1988) show that oil field lease values increase with greater volatility. The models of Bjerksund and Ekern (1990) for oil development value include the analytical American perpetuity real call option. Laughton (1998) shows that both oil price and reserve volume uncertainties enhance the prospect value but distinctively influence the exercise of the various decisions. McCormack and Sick (2001) discuss the use of real options in valuing undeveloped reserves. Dias (2004) advocates that a real options format is appropriate for evaluating oil extraction decisions due to the inherent revenue uncertainty and managerial flexibility. Chorn and Shokhor (2006) apply a jump diffusion model for evaluating the emergence of new information in petroleum developments. Muehlenbachs (2009) considers innovations in costs of reactivation of idle oil wells. Guedes and Santos (2016) assess the value of an offshore oil development installation involving a sequence of interdependent decisions modelled as options and show a high value associated with abandonment. The role of CO2 in enhancing oil recovery rates as well as mitigating its potentially harmful effects on the environment is assessed by Compernolle, Welkenhuysen, Huisman, Piessens, and Kort (2017), who consider two stochastic factors.\n\nA technology rescale with its more favourable properties can be conceived as a discrete sequential investment style model for an active productive asset that can assume more than one state. The earliest formulations of this type are the continual switching models between an active and suspended state as presented by Brennan and Schwartz (1985) and Dixit (1989). Trigeorgis (1996) provides a basic model of the option to contract, where the investor has the opportunity to choose once in one year's time whether to make the full remaining investment expenditure to obtain the full project value, or alternatively a reduced expenditure (equal to the cost savings) for a proportion of the project value. This is equivalent to a European put option, so there is no flexibility of investment timing. Although the basic approach is shown as a binomial discrete time model, alternative computational methods are suggested for an American put, which could reflect sensitivity to changes in expected interest rates, drifts and future volatility. In an extension to multiple states, Paxson (2005) develops a contraction–expansion model having contraction as one of its states, characterized by a more favourable operating cost structure (for lower quality and lower scale) in the presence of a profit decline. Insley (2017) examines the effect of carbon tax schemes on the optimal timing of construction, production and abandonment of oil sands extraction. Usually, these models are based on a single stochastic factor and ignore technological innovations.\n\nIn contrast, Malchow-Møller and Thorsen (2005) propose a repeated investment model of potentially ever-improving technological advances, which is installed whenever a sufficient productivity deterioration is suffered. Siddiqui and Maribu (2009) formulate a one-factor investment model for the electricity generation industry to examine the economic justification for a distribution upgrade and show the significance of volatility on the policy decision. Siddiqui and Fleten (2010) develop a process representation to model a real option formulation of a switch to an alternative energy technology having a more favourable cost structure. Kort, Murto, and Pawlina (2010) show that despite the intrinsic flexibility of a stepwise versus a lumpy investment strategy, greater uncertainty makes the latter more attractive. However, the former is always superior if a choice exists on the installed capacity level, Chronopoulos, Hagspiel, and Fleten (2017). Chronopoulos and Siddiqui (2015) assess the merits of alternative strategies through an optimal timing model for innovative technology replacement in the presence of price and technological arrival uncertainty. In an extension, Chronopoulos and Lumbreras (2017) assess the effect of risk aversion on the reluctance to switch between regimes under market and technological uncertainty, and show that changes in volatility, risk aversion and innovation significantly affect the optimal policy decision.\n\nMutually exclusive investments are examined by Dixit (1993), while Décamps, Mariotti, and Villeneuve (2006) point out that the Dixit solution is not necessarily correct in all contexts, as discussed below. Other authors consider several factors, sometimes two stochastic factors. Bobtcheff and Villeneuve (2010) extend the Décamps et al. (2006) approach to stochastic input and output prices. Adkins and Paxson, 2011a, Dockendorf and Paxson, 2013 and Støre, Fleten, Hagspiel, and Nunes (2018) examine two-stochastic-factor models for making a viable irreversible switch between two different inputs (outputs), showing that both sources of uncertainty are crucial in the optimal decision.\n\nSeveral authors have addressed Décamps type problems. Fleten, Maribu, and Wangensteen (2007) is an early application of the Décamps method to a choice between mutually exclusive projects of different scale, simplified as the solution to four equations with four unknowns. Fleten, Heggedal, and Siddiqui (2011) consider basic mutually exclusive investments of lower and higher scale, and also a lower scale with a switching option to upgrade to the higher scale. Hagspiel, Huisman, Kort, and Nunes (2016) examine a generation investment problem, deciding when to replace a declining product. Lavrutich (2017) mentions that the Décamps problem is similar to hers insofar as “the optimal investment intervals of two projects do not intersect, creating the inaction region”. Lukas, Spengler, Kupfer, and Kieckhäfer (2017) note a hysteresis while considering choice among three mutually exhaustive investments, providing a numerical solution. Dumortier, Kaufman, and Hayes (2017) cite Décamps, and provide a numerical solution for mean reversion and two-way switching. Guerra, Kort, Nunes, and Olivera (2018) mention Décamps in the conclusion, as a possible extension, to their simultaneous solution of ten equations. Truong, Trück, and Mathew (2018) examine a problem close to ours, studying several alternative climate change abatement technologies, when there is uncertainty, but with a quite different application. Optimal investment for a single project is compared to sequential investments and alternative investments, citing Décamps.\n\nOur aim is to develop and analyse a discrete sequential investment problem characterizing the rescale trade-off between continuing to use the conventional incumbent technology for oil extraction versus installing an appropriate technology with lower operating costs, under price uncertainty and a declining periodic output volume. Our real option formulation employs a perpetuity to value the residual reserve volume. However, a divestment option is introduced to ensure a finite time termination as advocated by Preinreich (1940) for analytical appraisal models based on an infinite lifetime assumption. The divestment option incurs a significant decommissioning cost on exercise and provides the means for terminating the implied infinitely lived asset.\n\nThere are four principal contributions made by this paper. First, we develop a one stochastic and one deterministic factor representation in which the output price follows an assumed stochastic process and the output volume declines deterministically with cumulative production, but despite this complexity there is initially an analytical solution. Second, we are concerned with determining the revenue thresholds that discriminate between justifying a conventional technology divestment without rescaling, and appropriate technology rescaling but with the conventional technology divested, under separate and then joint formulations. A rescaling-contraction is economically justified when the decline in the value of the periodic extracted oil output and investment cost is offset by the value of the reduced operating costs. Third, we provide some insights on rescaling with partial divesting. Finally, numerical analysis is used to show the sensitivity of the threshold justifying extending the life of mature fields to changing several government policy variables.\n\nQuestions that we address are: (1) how does the volatility of oil prices (the stochastic element) affect the timing (thresholds) of divestment, and/or adoption of lower cost technology? (2) What is the difference between divestment and/or switching timing with and without a new lower cost technology, under the Dixit and adapted Décamps methods? (3) Would government subsidies, tax credits or other allowances which amount to partial divestment affect the timing of disinvestment and/or rescaling-contraction? (4) What other feasible government policies could motivate extending the life of mature fields?\n\nGenerally, we find that by treating the divestment and switching investment decisions as a separate formulation, both the exercise thresholds and option coefficients decrease as volatility increases, but at different rates. A different pattern emerges when the divestment and investment switching decisions are treated in a joint formulation. As the volatility increases, the divestment threshold decreases but the switching threshold increases, so the inaction region widens.\n\nSeveral simplifying assumptions are introduced to make the real-option switching model analytically tractable. Switching once only between the two technologies, or between the incumbent technology and divestment, is treated as irreversible and instantaneous. Switching and any periodic operating costs are assumed to be known and constant. Although holding costs, royalties, tax, tax depreciation allowances and government subsidies (which could alter the effective investment, operating and decommissioning costs) are not directly considered in the analysis, it is straightforward to include them with an additional level of complexity, Adkins and Paxson (2017).\n\nThe paper is organized as follows. The real option model derivations are developed in Section 2. Section 3 explores numerical sensitivity analysis to gain further insights into the model solution. The paper ends with conclusions mostly about plausible government policies for extending the life of mature fields, and model limitations and extensions.\n\nSection snippets\n----------------\n\nOptimal selection\n-----------------\n\nWe seek to optimize the value an owner can capture from a mature nearly-depleted oil reserve. Up until now, a single large-scale technology solution has been deployed to extract oil from the reserve. But the owner is facing the challenge of closing down production because the net revenue flow is becoming uneconomic. The available alternatives are between _policy (a)_ of divesting the associated assets and terminating oil extraction, and _policy (b)_ of divesting the associated assets but switching\n\nNumerical illustrations\n-----------------------\n\nFurther insights into the behaviour of the solution are obtained through numerical sensitivity analysis. The simulations are in the main generated from the base case, presented in Table 2. The conventional technology is seen to be more expensive because of the greater periodic operating expense but with a greater depletion rate due to θ_X_ \\> θ_Y_. At divestment, both technologies incur decommissioning costs (or negative divestment values). The values in Table 2 are selected so _fX_ \\> −_rDX, fY_ \\> −_rDY_\n\nConclusion and discussion\n-------------------------\n\nWe formulate a real option model for determining the optimal rescale decision to switch from conventional to appropriate technology for a marginal mature off-shore oil installation. As an active field becomes increasingly marginalised, the original technologies are not economic and without a rescaling-contraction the residual oil in the reserve becomes economically trapped and inaccessible. Our model is formulated on oil price uncertainty described by a geometric Brownian motion process and a\n\nAcknowledgements\n----------------\n\nWe thank Alcino Azevedo, Kuno Huisman, Artur Rodrigues, the late John Kensinger (the discussant) and other participants in the Real Options Conference, Boston June 2017, and three anonymous referees, for helpful comments on earlier versions of this paper. This research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public, commercial or not-for-profit sectors.\n\nCited by (5)\n------------\n\n*   ### [A review of the operations literature on real options in energy](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377221722007421)\n    \n    2023, European Journal of Operational Research\n    \n    Investigating the extent to which specific types of decisions improve the value of energy assets offers guidance on how to prioritize the allocations of scarce resources in applications. Some (9 or 11%) of the examined papers do so: Smith & McCardle (1999), Lund (2000), Enders et al. (2010), Secomandi & Kekre (2014), Farzan et al. (2015), Jafarizadeh & Bratvold (2015), Adkins & Paxson (2019), Flora & Vargiolu (2020), and Deeney et al. (2021). The documented enhancements range from almost zero to 11%, as Lund (2000) finds for exploration and capacity choices, respectively, in the development of offshore oil projects.\n    \n*   ### [Risk-adjusted valuation for real option decisions](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167268121003905)\n    \n    2021, Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization\n    \n    That is, assuming there is an efficient market for a company, its market value will incorporate the value of its real options. This assumption is made by Myers (1977), Berk et al. (1999), Brandimarte (2006), Shibata and Nishihara (2018), Adkins and Paxson (2019) and many others. A further assumption of market completeness yields the company’s value as the sum of the book value (the value of its assets-in-place) and a ROV (that managers create by exploiting the firm’s investment opportunities).\n    \n\n© 2019 Published by Elsevier B.V.", 'usage': {'tokens': 3580}}}